# HGOT[ICML2025]

-   paper: [HGOT: Self-supervised Heterogeneous Graph Neural Network with Optimal Transport](https://arxiv.org/abs/2506.02619)
-   Code from author: [HGOT](https://github.com/yanbeiliu/HGOT-ICML2025)

## How to run

- Clone the Openhgnn-DGL

  ```bash
  python main.py -m HGOT -t node_classification -d imdb4MAGNN -g 0
  ```

  If you do not have gpu, set -gpu -1.

  the dataset imdb4MAGNN is supported.

## Performance: Node classification

-   Device: CPU, **Intel(R) Core(TM) i7-9750H CPU @ 2.60GHz   2.59 GHz**
-   Dataset: IMDB

| Node classification | Macro-F1 | Micro-F1  |
| ------------------- | -------  | --------  |
| MAGNN               | 58.65%   | 59.20%    |
| paper               | 60.75%   | 60.98%    |
| OpenHGNN            | 60.54%   | 60.70%    |

The perform of experiments are run in the setting of paper which uses SVM classification, so it is a little bit different from semi-supervised node classification. And directly running the model is using semi-supervised node classification trainerflow.

## Dataset

-   We process the IMDB dataset given by [MAGNN](https://github.com/cynricfu/MAGNN). It is saved as dgl.heterograph and can be loaded by [dgl.load_graphs](https://docs.dgl.ai/en/latest/generated/dgl.load_graphs.html)

### Description

-   [imdb4MAGNN](../../dataset/#IMDB)

    -   Number of nodes

        | movie    | 4278 |
        | -------- | ---- |
        | director | 2081 |
        | actor    | 5257 |

    -   Number of edges

        | movie-director | 4278  |
        | -------------- | ----- |
        | movie-actor    | 12828 |

    -   Types of metapaths: `MDM, MAM, DMD, DMAMD, AMA, AMDMA`. Please note that the `M` is movie, `D` is director, `A` is actor, and the edges above are all bidirectional.


[TODO]

## TrainerFlow: Node classification trainer


-   **Graph Preprocess & Feature Transformation**
    -   To handle the heterogeneity where nodes of different types possess features of varying dimensions (or exist in different feature spaces), HGOT first projects the raw features into a unified latent space.
    -   Unified Dimension Projection: Type-specific linear transformation matrices are designed to map the original features of each node type into a shared vector space.
    -   Formula: For the i-th node of type $\phi_i$,the projected feature $h_i$ 
  is calculated as:$h_i$ = $ W_{\phi_i}$ * $x_i$ + $ b_{\phi_i} $ 
-   **Heterogeneous Semantic Information Aggregation**
    -   To capture the rich high-order semantic information within the heterogeneous graph, HGOT employs an attention mechanism to aggregate multiple meta-path based views into a comprehensive "central view".
    -   Branch View Generation: The original heterogeneous graph is decomposed into several homogeneous subgraphs (i.e., branch views) based on different meta-paths.
    -   Central View Construction:
Node Level: An attention network is utilized to compute node embeddings under each meta-path, which are then fused via weighted summation to obtain the aggregated node representation $ Z_agg $
Edge Level: The adjacency matrices generated by each meta-path undergo a logical OR operation to produce the aggregated adjacency matrix $ A_agg $, preserving all potential connectivity information.
    -   Objective: The central view integrates semantic information from various branch views and serves as the target distribution in the optimal transport process.

## Hyper-parameters specific to the model

You can modify the parameters in openhgnn/config.ini

### Description

```python
feats_drop_rate = 0.3 # feature drop rate to get the feature drop list
attn_vec_dim = 64 # the dimesions of vector in the Attention Layer 
feats_opt = 110 # the type of nodes that needs to get the new features
loss_lambda = 0.2 # the weighted coefficient to balance the two parts.
src_node_type = 2 # the type of nodes that has the raw attributes
dropout = 0.1 # the drop rate used in Drop some Attributes
num_heads = 8 # the num of heads used in muti-head attention mechanism
HIN = MAGNN # the type of model used in Combination with the HIN Model.
```

## More

#### Contirbutor

Yanhua Zhu[GAMMA LAB]

#### If you have any questions,

Submit an issue or email to 2023210015@bupt.cn.

